[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now lets
talk about promises, okay.
I know we're running late, if you have
to leave it's okay, I understand.
I'm trying to get through it quickly,
but this is the stuff I'm actually most
excited about, so
I hope this is an interesting team.
Promises.
Promises there's a lot of different ways
that people explain ' there's a whole
bunch of great blog posts about promises,
I encourage you to kinda take
a look at some of those.
Let me just give you two metaphors for
what a promise is all about.
Okay, the first one, is you walk up to the
counter at Burger King or McDonald's or
something like that, and you're hungry for
a Big Mac or a burger whatever.
And you hand the cashier, you order your
food and you hand the cashier some money,
what usually happens is you don't
have your food back right away,
what does the cashier hand
you instead of your food.
>> Speaker 1: Receipt.
>> Kyle Simpson: A receipt, and
that receipt has an order number on it.
So you step back among the other masses of
people that are impatiently waiting for
their high caloric intake food.
And you wait patiently, unpatiently for
somebody to call out that order number,
that magic number on your receipt.
And then what do you do once
they call out your order number?
You walk back up to the counter and
you exchange your receipt for
the food that you actually wanted.
>> Kyle Simpson: So what we have here
is we have a transaction that was
asynchronously completing.
I started the transaction by
giving you some money, but
you couldn't complete the transaction and
give me my food yet.
You had to give me a promise for
some food.
You had to give me an IOU for some food.
And you had to come back at a later
time and exchange my order number for
my food, okay?
That, metaphorically,
is exactly what promises are.
I call to a function, and
I want some end result to happen.
And that function tells me,
sorry I can't finish it yet.
But I'll hand you back a promise,
I'll hand you back a receipt
with an order number on it.
And at some later time when I
get finished with that task,
I'll let you exchange the order number for
the value that you asked for.
Does that make sense?
All right.
The other metaphor that
I would give you for
promises, is what if we
could call a function and
we weren't sure when that
function was gonna finish.
But what if we could subscribe to
an event after calling the function,
we had some mechanism by which
we could subscribe to an event
that lets us know when
that function finishes.
We might call that a completion event or
a continuation event.
Kinda like we listen for click events
on buttons, but this is an event for
a function call.
That's essentially what promises are.
We're calling a function,
it doesnt finish yet, but
it allows us to subscribe
to a continuation event.
And when we get notified of that event,
then we proceed.
Does that make sense at all?
Let's see what that looks like in code.
I'm gonna use,
this is very heretical in the broader
standards community, because everybody
seems to, in the standards community,
they seem to universally hate
the jQuery implementation of promises.
Because jQuery had the gall to implement
promises in a non-standard way.
And jQuery can't go back and
change it now cuz there's ten million
lines of code relying upon it.
So If you talked to anybody in the
promises and the standards community, and
you mention jQuery promises,
they will scowl at you and
say you shouldn't be using those.
I think that's hogwash, that's nonsense.
jQuery has promises,
they're useful, it's a pattern rather
than an API as far as I'm concerned.
So I'm going to show you
first how jQuery does it.
We create these things called deferred and
we pull a promise object off of our
deferred, then we have two
separate pieces of code.
Lines four through six and lines eight
through ten would likely happen in two
totally different places in our code,
cuz there are some separation concerns.
Lines four through six are what happens
when we want to listen for the event,
in this case we want to listen for
the done event, the continuation event.
So we would return back
a promise from some utility and
that calling place would be able to
listen for the event that was finishing.
And then somewhere inside of our code we
would at some later point we would resolve
that promise.
We would exchange the order number for
a big mac.
So when we call resolve on the deferred,
he will
automatically fire the done event for
any promises that are listening to him.
Okay.
Here's how we use it for
example, creating ourselves a little
delay function that I call wait for N.
I create my deferred, I return my promise,
I set up a time out for
calling D dot resolve.
That's the typical pattern, and you'll
see that with all promise implementation,
that same kind of pattern.
So here's how we use it,
we call wait for N, 1,000., wait for
N 1000 returns us back a promise.
So when we call .then, we're listening for
the continuation event on
that returned promise.
So our code says wait for n, wait for
1000 milliseconds, then do this stuff.
Inside of this this stuff function,
we call wait for
n again,
which generates a whole new promise, and
when we return a new promise from
it it chains the promises together.
So this code you can look
at it very synchronously,
it says wait for
a thousand then to this, then do this,
then do this, then do this,
even though it stops asynchronously.
So you can see that promises give
us something similar to what we saw
with generators.
They give us a very
synchronous looking syntax for
an asynchronously
completing series of tasks.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
everybody follow that?
>> Kyle Simpson: And
here's why it's important.
Remember when we talked
about inversion of control?
When I pass a callback into some utility,
that utility has control
over when my code happens.
We've reinverted the control,
we've uninverted the control now.
We call some utility, and
rather than giving them our continuation,
that utility hands us a promise back.
And we get to decide what
we do with that promise.
We listen for the completion of that
promise and we decide what to do next.
So we've uninverted that inversion
of control and brought it back so
that we are now in control of
the entire completion of our program.
Does that make sense?
That's why promises are such a powerful
solution to callback hell and
inversion of control, is cuz they
uninvert that inversion of control.
Now, promises are actually
built in as of VS6, so
you can use them natively
directly in the language.
We're going to get the capital P promise.
It's already there in Chrome and Node.
You can play with it if you want.
We construct our promise.
This should look very similar to
what we were doing with JQuery.
We construct a promise
that we return back, and
then we call a resolve
at some later point.
And we call .then and .then and
when we return new promises,
it does exactly the same thing.
This is why I don't care that jQuerys
API is slightly non-standard,
because the concept is the same.
We still reason about the code
in exactly the same way.
>> Speaker 2: Kyle.
Is there part of that chain strategy for
each one?
If you say, I get a time out in this one,
I want to do this?
Is there like a then otherwise?
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah.
In native promises, if you pass
two functions in, the second function
is the error handler for that stage.
So there is a way to call reject
if you want to fail a promise.
There is always an error path.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, so
we get data, 1,000 milliseconds from now,
it passes along this message.
Promises have message passing obviously.
So 1,000 milliseconds from now,
num one will be ten.
A thousand milliseconds from now,
num two will be thirty.
And a thousand milliseconds later,
the answer will be the string
meaning of life forty-two.